During the last decades, robotics has evolved hand in hand with machine learning techniques. All of them share their fundamental need of a complex preprocessing of the input, to perform a feature extraction, specially on Computer Vision. These features are the descriptors subsequently fed to the response algorithm. What we seek with this is to get automatic, fast and efficient algorithms to detect certain objects inside an image.

This work proposes to address person detection using deep learning, deploying a CNN (Convolutional Neural Network ) to process the incoming images. The main benefit compared to traditional methods is the robustness that deep learning can yield. The main objective has been to find the optimum trade-off between the mentioned robustness and a real-time response.

The proposed system achieves it thank to a pretrained SSD (Single Shot Multibox Detector ) person detection CNN we have deployed on TensorFlow. Additionally, in order to increase the robustness, we have implemented a person tracking system that eliminates the effect of false positives/negatives in the detection process. The next stage in the system pipeline was a face detection block (using Haar Cascade detectors on OpenCV), in order to retrieve the face for every detected person. The extracted faces (tracked as well for each person) were lastly analyzed by a siamese network (on TensorFlow as well), in order to find the chased person.

This described pipeline allows to certainly tell which of the seen persons is the one to follow, even on a poorly lightened scenario (one of the worst Computer Vision enemies). This information can be combined with a depth image from an infrared sensor, to obtain a fine estimation of the relative position to the person. Lastly, we implement a case-based PID controller for a reactive smooth response, moving the robot towards the objective person.

The entire system has been experimentally validated on a real Turtlebot robot, drawing upon an Asus Xtion conventional RGBD camera, with successful results.